---
draft  : true
title  : Don't give others your problems
author : Dinis Cruz
notes:
  - english and structure needs fixing
---
Julie - New Title:  Problem transfer:  Don't Give Others Your Problem
Don't give other your problems.

One of the great phases I've heard at one of the Photobox leadership meetings, was that sometimes is very easy to fall into a trap, which is to give others, and that could be customers, could be team members, could be other parts of the company, what is, fundamentally, your problem.So, you working in an specific area, you working on specific activities and has specific deliverables, and sometimes is very easy to give others what is, actually, something you need to do. What you are doing is that you are delegating. And, well, not delegating, you are transferring, some of your responsibilities, some of the problems that you need to solve to somebody else. And, what it means is at that moment and time, you become a tax, you become something that somebody else has to pay, somebody else has to do, in order, to solve a problem that, fundamentally, should be solved by you.

Julie - First Paragraph:  One of the greatest statements that resonated with me at a Photobox leadership meeting was "do not give others your problems."  The term "others" refers to clients, customers, team members and other divisions of the company.  If you are working on specific tasks with deadlines, it can be very easy to transfer your to-do list to others.  This is not a form of delegation but rather a problem that could have been solved by you.  Theoretically, it places a tax onto someone else's work load.  

So, if you take a simple example, as project management. Project management, needs to know what is going on. If you look at most project management activities, they work on faith based data. So, that why we have the weekly or whatever daily catch up for what is going on, because people don't know what is happening, right? And they create artificial problems, and by that they create attrition on other team members. So, the way I look at it, what you have to think about, is don't give somebody else a problem that you have. So, in project management, if you need to know about what is going on, you need to work on solutions to make it easy to map what is going on. And then, you do the light work, to capture that data. So, it's much better to go to somebody and say "Hey... this is what is happening, because this is what I'm reading" based from the data available versus tell me what is happening.

Julie - Second paragraph:  An example of how this might occur could be in project management situation.  If you look at most project management activities, the team members work on faith-baed data.  So it is necessary to have weekly or even daily briefing meetings to bring everyone up to speed on the progress of the activities.  Your job as the lead it to present the problem and also have possible solutions to offer to the team. That way, the team can see that you have done some background work on the issue, captured the data, and presented it as "this is what is happening because this is what I am reading."

The second one is easy, because somebody just need to... I'm sorry, the one way you ask somebody "what is happening" is easy to process. Because when you look at it, you have a mental model of why of what is going on, and you just compare with that. Also, it's easy to say look, this is off, this if off... When you ask somebody to say, "tell me what is happening?”. It's more complicated. And the reason it's because it's complicated, because at the moment and time that person needs to understand where you are in your understanding of the situation, then make a delta, then document it, right? And it gets worst, if that documentation doesn't actually become much more actionable than for the other person just to go, "so, okay cool". It's almost like a negative - negative, a double negative. Because you not only are part of that information, also in your head you realize that it's actually not going to be more useful. So, the key here is to always look for solutions for making it fluid, in non-attrition way, for other to provide what you need, and whether that is a file or a piece of information, whether that is some work, the way we gain speed with a team is to always think about what are you asking the entities that you touch, and how much you are asking them to do.

Julie - Third paragraph:  Anther reason not to tranfer problems to others is that is greatly slows down the completion process of the team.  It is easy to ask team members "what is happening" when looking at data but it is the actually the easy way out. It becomes a very complicated question for others to digest when they may not have the same mental picture of how you may be viewing the situation.  A lot of time would need to be taken to bring the team up to speed on the understanding of the issue. It is almost like two negatives occurrig at the same time.  So the key here is to always look for solutions that make tackling the project fluid, providing your team with what they need to and how much you are asking them to complete.

And, in a way, this is also an opportunity, because it's sometimes easier to centralize or to do some of this activities from a central point, and it also make commercial and business sense to do that centrally. Because, instead of distributing the cost of doing something with other entities, you can sometimes say we do it here. So, we manage it here. And that is sometimes more productive, because you can get more resources, more talent, more people, more capabilities, and sometimes it's good to manage those things. So, I find it's very important and as we map the connections between the different elements, and this is where if you fit into a kind of graph, you'll see the connections between the different objectives, the different bids. You, then, see how knowing who is actually delegating work to who makes a big difference. So, this is hard, you know, in a sense, it's easy, but it's not a very solvable problem and it's not something that easy to solve. Especially, if you look at project management, sometimes one of the hardest parts is not what the hell is going on at the moment and time, but it's the key concept is to make sure that, when you assign the tasks correctly and we find great solutions to get information or material, and a good team, and we always provide capabilities. We are like the boys’ scout role, we always leave the campsite better than we left, and we always should think of ways to make the other part of the team, the other part of the company or the customer, better off without interactions.

Julie - Fourth paragraph: It makes excellent business sense to handle project tasks in-house.  Centralizing the work within the team or company brings a sense of pride to be able to say that "we do that here in our own company."  And it is usually more productive, because you can get more resources, more talent, more people, and more capabilities from within.  So, I find that it is very important as the project is mapped out, you can see the connections between the different elements, the connections between the different objectives, the different bids and who is delegating and who is working hard.  Especially, if you look at project management, one of the hardest parts is not always about what is going on, as I stated above, but also assigning tasks correctly, finding great solutions to get information or material, having a good team, and always providing the capabilities to perform. We are like the boys’ scout role, we always leave the campsite better than we left.  We should be striving to positiviely impact our team, our company, and our customers on a daily basis with better business interactions.  
