---
draft  : true
title  : From word document to Git Content
author : Dinis Cruz
notes:
 - english and structure needs fixing
---

From word document to Git Content
 
One of the transformations that we do building PBX Group Security website, is mainly the challenges, we took a word document that was created and changed with a number of question and how to review them, which is basically some questions we ask candidates and we convert that into a way powered by Git, so they are Git files. And, they are managed by GitHub as CMS (Content Management System).

The difference here what is very important is that we went from all purposes static files, from an entity that was very hard to maintain, very hard to consume, that was basically a beast that we had probably print out, or give to potential interviewers who would have to review it, take a couple of questions and then ask them on during interviews. The problem with that is it's typical inefficiency, because you basically have a document created at a moment and time which to be quite comprehensive, which is then going to be consumed many days before this data. We had very little ability to improve and very little ability to interact. And not just that, the fact that you then have bottle-neck, because most likely there will be only one person that will maintain that, there will be no easy way to review it. So, it's kind of the typical kind of bottle neck, slow moving documents that everybody will then left to hate, not very useful, and we won't get a lot of value from it. Including from the person who create it, on the first place. Because you spend all that time and thinking for best practices and really good materials on it, but you didn't have the feedback loop.

So, what we did was we took that, we took same of the best question from there, and information and we basically added them into our new, sort of, challenge system, which is basically, one page, one marked on page, actually, powered by google. Which basically means that you have the attributes at the top, which actually provides the details and information for the question, and now that we created the pages, the challenges pages, which I then inserted into the actual job description.

Which actually means that not only we are able to push to study away to the candidates, so the candidates can actually see the questions and the challenges, even if you wanted to use them, or ask them, doing your process, it's not trivial to literally go and make changes. Because what happens is, you go to the page, there is an edit button on it, you click on it, and literally, it takes you second to submit the pull request. The power of that is that you went from system that was very hard to change to a system where now, anybody consuming, as they use it, and as they have owner opinions, they can literally provide feedback. And that empowers the people using it, and its also very motivating, for the people using it, because you can actually make a difference, you can actually make it better. So, you actually think about how to make it better. And more importantly, as you think of question, or things you want to do doing an interview, basically, to make this, in a way, the original word document better, which is now not a word document, because that was just a beast stuck in frozen time. Now you have this dynamic and agile system that allow us to update the question. We can even create now, that workflow, we can create that pdf, from individual these challenges pages. The difference is that is very easy to edit it.

What I also like, is the fact that in the past, I've done multiple interviews where I've asked a question that I thought was quite inspiring, or I was professionally, so other people who interviewed better than me, they ask question, and they are really good, and my problem is that I couldn't remember what exactly they said, and that was a really cool question, and I like what he was going for, what he or she was trying to actually achieve with that question. So now, we are in a situation where next time that happens, I can literally just take a note and add it as one of the questions for the challenges. And literally, we capture that new information, which is brilliant. This is kind of the power, you go from a word document, which is basically this beast, to really nice dynamic, empowering and agile system, which will go better. And even more importantly, we all have data, so we can actually adding that data, what questions worked, what questions didn't work, what questions we ask, what questions actually add value, and it means that the final version that will have, in a couple of years from now, or six months from now, it's actually going to be very actionable, because those are actually the question that we ask, and we get value, and it makes sense to ask for our culture, and for what we are trying to achieve, in this interview process.

And I feel this is a very big paradigm, is the same things when you go into the graph world, you go from this very static and looked in, in a way, environment, to this very dynamic, fluid and more importantly, we have strong feedback loops that allows us to make it better. So, we now know that the system will get better, will age like wine, which is the older it gets, the better it becomes.

