---
draft  : true
title  : The next generation is not aware of open source and creative comments
author : Dinis Cruz
notes:
  - english and structure needs fixing
---

The next generation is not aware of open source and creative comments

Tonight, while having dinner with some friends, I spent quite a nice time talking to a nineteen-year-old who is in the university doing Political Studies, what is absolutely shocking, although it's not surprising because it has happened to me many times before, it how he no idea of what open source and creative comments that type of copyright licenses. This is quite fascinating, because in a way, these ideas have won today, in my generation they were radical, you get called a communist, you get called "that will never work", and "that's crazy", and "there will be no financial model" and it's something that could never exist. And you know, some of the biggest companies in the work, develop on top of open source, creative comments, things like Wikipedia, tons of tons, of open source stuff. So, it definitely has proved its commercial and ethical value, and moral, and practical, and useful value. But, somehow that is not terminating in the universities, and it's crazy, because you expect universities to be the champions of that kind of environment. 

So, in a way, the tragedy is that this generation is not being exposed to the thinking behind this, and practically high works, and the hard part, is that this is not easy. It's not easy to think in open way, it's not easy to collaborate. You know, to write things are under those licenses. And they are definitely missing a tricky, they are definitely missing by trick by not exploring and understanding this. And also, from that competitive advantage they are losing out. Because as a professional, at the university should be a moment of great creativity, should be a moment that you are pushing stuff out. You should be actually exploring your ideas and leaving already this. In a way, to connect the world where you start to create relationships that in the future might land you some really interesting opportunities or jobs, or even personal connections. And the idea that they are not already exploring this graph like world of publishing things, learning how to write things, learning how to get the heads around, actually publishing, for example, even creating a book, is something that is a really missed opportunity.

One of my comments to the nineteen-year-old that I was speaking to was saying "Look, if you can get your head around and publish this on items like Medium, for example. And then to place then into a link public, and publish that book, and maybe printed out in Amazon, you get a job!". Like literally, that is already impressive into this world, because not that many people, actually, have been able to do that, and get that confidence to that, and write, and write, because that's how, actually, you start to push your ideas.

The key concept is also that you have to write a lot. It's not about writing one respected book, post one spectacular idea, and that wins the world, and that makes you mix the whole thing, and it's a constant publishing that allows you to be that overnight success after 100 blog posts, right? So, basically, that's why is so important to publish and to write, and to learn about your inner voice, and to write about things that you care about. 

So, my recommendation to him, was that he should write about the things that he is passionate about, is to publish both the work that he does at the university, but also things that he is passionate, for example, a great movie he have seem, a documentary, a great article he read. He should write his ideas down and publish them, and then send those links to his friends and the people he knows, and comment on others that are doing some of those things, and that's basically how he builds his brand. So, it's very fundamental he starts to build the brand and also to capture those ideas to his future self.
So, the important thing, is that even is the only person who ready that Medium post, in a couple of years from now, that will be worth a while. Because I guarantee that in a couple of years from now, he is going to read the stuff that he wrote and go, "wow, that is really cool. That is a really good idea". And if he haven't capture that idea on hyperlink and backed down Medium it will disappear, and that idea, that little nugget of something that could be quite spectacular, is lost forever.

