---
draft  : true
title  : Press Releases for Project Briefs
author : Dinis Cruz
notes:
 - english and structure needs fixing
---

Press Releases for Project Briefs
 
At PhotoBox Group Security, we are trying to adopt the Amazon press release model, which is a really interesting way to map projects. Traditionally, this is being used for bigger projects, and we have internally used it already for a couple. But, what we are trying to do in our team, is to actually use it across the board for much smaller projects. Because, what the press release concept has, which I really like, is the idea that you have a front page, which is basically one page, that should contain all the key information, which is then followed by queue of FAQ, and the FAQ's are interesting because it gives you a lot of flexibility, for what it is. But you can actually target specific audiences, and you can target to specific areas that you want to cover, or even specific parts of the projects. So, you can even in a way, the FAQ can evolve as the project goes from the planning phase, to execution, to almost the completion phase. And we are going to use Jira to store all this data, so means you also get a nice version of control part of it. 

The key of this, becomes then the first part. So, I actually kind of call the press release, almost like the front page, because that is literally what is it. It's that vision to the future, where you can say, "this is what success looks like". And I think it's very important also to describe the audience that you are talking to. Who are you talking about? Is this a press release for internal team? For a customer point of view? Because there is also some interesting sense of brevities. But, what is really powerful, when you get this right, is that, if you are going to write a press release for a very small project, and especially for bigger projects, you can have, basically, one paragraph or two paragraphs, or you can have five. And the key for the project management team who is running this, is to make this really easy and to create also sorts of information and help, and how to's, and examples, and templates, in a way, handheld the first five or ten versions of this. So, that you can create a good reference. Because after a while, it should be easy for the next projects, because you already got a good set of examples. 

So, how you are going to start this? So, basically, the idea, the recommendation, is that you take a whole a number of projects, that are already running. So, we take the view that everything that everybody is doing, is a project. Because it should be classified as a project, because every project basically, get funded, has teams, has resources, has all the information. And what you then have, is the ability to on-board those projects that already exist. So, what this allows us to do, is to go very quickly to the meat of the matter, which is to writing those press releases in a way that it gets consumed, because all you need to do, then is to represent reality. You don't actually have to think too much about, is this going to be approved? Is it not going to be approved? Because, by definition, those initial set up projects, they are already approved. Because people are already doing it.

So, the first major milestone, would be to reach a point of balance, where you basically have press releases created in a realistic, and workable, and usable way, that represents every simple project that current is ongoing in the entire team. And this number can be quite big, because fundamentally, there is a whole bunch of things that are happening at every moment and time, and this is how you then start to manage all this.

There are a lot of techniques you can do to this. Sometimes, is actually very important that the project management team doesn't overload the other teams, which means that they have to find solutions to make this a simple exercise. So, actually a good example is you can even just interview the teams, and you can even simply get those teams to describe what they do. And then, the project management team will take that, create a press release, map it out, and say, is this it? Because, actually, is much easier to get somebody to help and to collaborate, when you basically just ask them, what are you doing? How does it work? And then, you can almost just observe. If any fails, you can just sit with the team and say, what are you doing? Observe, and then, reverse engineers the press release and the FAQ, of what is actually happening at the moment.

Again, the good news on this, is that you don't have to invent too much. There is not much approvals, this is already happening. So, I'll say we key in the first milestone of this process, is when you can actually correctly describe, what current exist within the team, and in this case, Photobox Group Security, in this press release structure for all the projects. And then, you can have review meetings, where you sit down, and all the key players, and specially the key persons that are accountable, and the exec levels, you basically review everything, and you basically sit down, and you do one by one, and you just ready information and make sure that are no question, there are no queries, and then you can just run with it.
So, that's how we are viewing and how we are trying to implement the press release concept from Amazon, which is a really cool idea.


